So, why does it work?
What makes you think that we can
actually compress any given signal?
You see all real-world signals, or
at least the ones that we interested in,
have some structure.
We are really not that much
interested in random signals.
When there is structure in the signal,
there is redundancy.
There is correlation or coherence, or
any other terms that people
use in different contexts.
So, to drive this point home let us
look at simple, plain English text.
About 50 years ago, in 1965,
a psychologist named Mark Mayzner,
he was actually working at He
analyzed text corpus with
about 20,000 English works.
Some books, newspaper articles,
memos, so on and so forth and
we found some really interesting patterns.
And couple of years ago a researcher
at Google by name Peter Norvig,
he repeated Mayzner's work, but
this time he used 743 billion
votes in all of Google's books.
And in this graph you see the top
ten words ranked by the frequency.
And we call them function words, because
they carry very, very little information.
We discard them in speech recognition,
in running text even if you discard
You really will not lose the meaning
of the context of what's being written.
In this particular graph,
you can see that the average length
of an English word is 4.79 characters.
80% of the 743 Billion words,
were between two and seven letters.
And, here are the most frequent letters,
sorted by unigram probability.
That is, how often each letter occurred
in this billions of bytes of text.
The sequence A, T, E, T, A, O, I, N, S,
R, H, L, D, C,
U was actually the same sequence.
What Messner found in his
earlier research 50 years ago.
So, for those of you who play Scrabble,
the point that I'm making is very,
very Easy to appreciate.
The tenet of coding information
is to use shortest code words to
represent very frequent events
because they carry less information.
Like, it is sunny in San Diego today
has very little information because
it's always sunny here in San Diego.
And then we use long code words for
events that contain lot more information.
The value of the letter E, T,
A, O, I, N in Scrabble is one.
And the letters Q and Z have ten points.
So, that is essentially
the name of the game.
In source compression, we look for
patterns to exploit the redundancy.
Once we find that structure,
we assign more value to
less frequent patterns and
design to send across.
So, most of the game is actually
finding that structure And
figuring out ways how to exploit it.
For speech signals, we look at
taking advantage of the redundancy
in the amplitude domain,
time and frequency.
Just to remind you, this is the
spectrogram you saw before In Course 1.
The top pane here that you see,
it has time on the x axis,
frequency on the y axis,
and the energy and
the signal is coded in gray scale.
Contained below that Is
the pitch period and
the one below that is the short
term energy going over time.
So, we can take advantage of the
redundancies in all these three domains.
Actually there is more.
By knowing about how we
produce speech that is how
the vocal tract system works,
we can much better than
just by looking at the waveform in time,
frequency and amplitude.
And these are called recorders or
because the make and
model of the speech production and
we estimate its parameters.
Then we get to send only
the parameters to the receiver and
the receiver knowing the same module,
can do reconstruction.
We won't talk much about hearing here.
Of how to use the sink properties.
But their a class of coders,
called perceptual coders.
These are the ones that are used in MP3,
AEC, and
all music comparison schemes in your iPod,
and RealNetworks, and so on, and so forth.
We will see them in the next course,
multimedia technologies.